---
layout: single
title: "Codes in Matlab and others"
permalink: /Codes/
author_profile: true
---

**Codes for nearest (covariance) correlation matrix problems**
- Codes for the Nearest Correlation Matrix problem (the problem was initially introduced by Prof. [Nick Higham](https://www.maths.manchester.ac.uk/~higham/)):  <a href="/files/CorrelationMatrix.m" download>CorrelationMatrix.m</a> is a Matlab code written for computing the nearest correlation matrix problem (first uploaded in August 2006; last updated on August 30, 2019). This code should be good enough for most Matlab users.  If your Matlab version is very low and you really need a faster code, you can download <a href="/files/mexeig.mexw64" download>mexeig.mexw64</a> (for win64 operating system) and if use win32 or Linux system, you need to download the installmex file <a href="/files/installmex.m" download>installmex.m</a> and the c-file <a href="/files/mexeig.c" download>mexeig.c</a> by running the installmex.m first. For a randomly generated  <span style="color:blue">3,000 by 3,000</span> pseudo correlation matrix (the code is insensitive to input data), the code needs <span style="color:red">24</span> seconds to reach a solution with the relative duality gap less than 1.0e-3 after 3 iterations and 43 seconds  with the relative duality gap less than 1.0e-10 after 6 iterations in my Dell Desktop with Intel (R) Core i7 processor and for an invalid <span style="color:red">10,000 by 10,000</span> pseudo correlation matrix, the code needs 15 minutes to reach a solution with the relative duality gap less than 1.0e-4 after 4 iterations and 24 minutes with the relative duality gap less than 1.0e-12 after 7 iterations. For practitioners, you may set the stopping criterion (relative duality gap) to stay between 1.0e-1 and 1.0e-3 to run the code (typically, 1 to 3 iterations). If you need a C/C++ code, download <a href="/files/main.c" download>main.c</a> and <a href="/files/main.h" download>main.h</a>, which were written by [Pawel Zaczkowski](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pawel-zaczkowski-13a6a233/?originalSubdomain=uk) under a summer research project. If you are a client to [The Numerical Algorithms Group](https://nag.com/) (NAG), you may also enjoy [their commercialized implementations](https://nag.com/IndustryArticles/Nearest_Correlation_Matrix.pdf). The code in R <a href="/files/CorrelationMatrix.R" download>CorrelationMatrix.R</a> was written by [Ying Cui](https://sites.google.com/site/optyingcui/) (last updated on August 31, 2019; for efficiency, please use [Microsoft R open](https://mran.microsoft.com/open)) and the code in Python <a href="/files/CorrelationMatrix.py" download>CorrelationMatrix.py was written by [Yancheng Yuan](https://www.polyu.edu.hk/ama/people/academic-staff/dr-yuan-yancheng/?sc_lang=en) (last updated on May 11, 2017), <span style="color:blue">respectively.</span>
-  <a href="/files/CorNewton3.m" download>CorNewton3.m</a> Computing the **Nearest Correlation <span style="color:red">Matrix</span> with fixed diagonal and off diagonal elements** (uploaded on September 14, 2009). The code in R <a href="/files/CorNewton3.R" download>CorNewton3.R</a> was provided by Professor Luca Passalacqua ([luca.passalacqua@uniroma1.it](mailto:luca.passalacqua@uniroma1.it)) (uploaded on October 7, 2016; for efficiency, please use [Microsoft R open](https://mran.microsoft.com/open)).
- <a href="/files/CorNewton3_Wnorm.m" download>CorNewton3_Wnorm.m</a> Computing the **W-norm Nearest Correlation Matrix with fixed diagonal and off diagonal elements** Testing example: <a href="/files/testCorMatWnorm.m" download>testCorMatWnorm.m</a>(uploaded on September 14, 2009).
- <a href="/files/CorMatHdm.m" download>CorMatHdm.m</a> Calibrating the **H-weighted Nearest Correlation Matrix** Testing example: <a href="/files/testCorMatHdm.m" download>testCorMatHdm.m</a> (uploaded in June 2008; last updated on September 10, 2009).
- <a href="/files/CorMatHdm_general.m" download>CorMatHdm_general.m</a> Computing the **H-weighted Nearest Correlation Matrix with fixed elements and lower and upper bounds** [H should not have too many zero elements for better numerical performance; otherwise, see CaliMatHdm] Testing example:  <a href="/files/testCorMatHdm_general.m" download>testCorMatHdm_general.m</a> (uploaded on September 14, 2009).
-  <a href="/files/LagDualNewton.m" download>LagDualNewton.m</a> (this is superseded by CorNewton3.m) Testing example: <a href="/files/testLagDualNewton.m" download>testLagDualNewton.m</a> (LagDualNewton method for the **Band Correlation Stress Testing**, "CorNewton1.m" will be called). 
- <a href="/files/CorNewtonSchur.m" download>CorNewtonSchur.m</a> Testing example: <a href="/files/testCorNewtonSchur.m" download>testCorNewtonSchur.m</a> (Schur decomposition based method for the **Local Correlation Stress Testing**, "CorNewton1.m" will be called).
- <a href="/files/AugLagNewton.m" download>AugLagNewton.m</a> (this is superseded by CorMatHdm_general.m) Testing example: <a href="/files/testAugLagNewton.m" download>testAugLagNewton.m</a> (AugLagNewton method for the **Band Correlation Stress Testing**, "CorNewton1.m" will be called). (uploaded in March 2007).
- <a href="/files/CaliMat1Mex.zip" download>CaliMat1Mex.zip</a> (Codes and testing example for) Calibrating **Covariance Matrix Problems with Inequality and/or Equality Constraints** (uploaded in April 2010).
- <a href="/files/CaliMatHdm.zip" download>CaliMatHdm.zip</a> Calibrating the **H-weighted Nearest Covariance Matrix** [H is allowed to have a large number of zero elements] (uploaded in April 2010).
- <a href="/files/Rank_CaliMat.zip" download>Rank_CaliMat.zip</a> Calibrating the **Nearest Correlation Matrix with Rank Constraints** (uploaded in April 2010).
- <a href="/files/Rank_CaliMatHdm.zip" download>Rank_CaliMatHdm.zip</a> Calibrating the **H-weighted Nearest Correlation Matrix with Rank Constraints** (uploaded in April 2010; last updated in October 2010 by including the refined Major codes).